Hello, my name is Donovan, and I will be assisting you today in this tutorial.
I will be showing you how to access and use Academic Search Complete.
Right now, we are on the library home page.
And what you would want to do to find Academic Search Complete is to
scroll down to database right here.
You click on "database" and it will open up a new tab.
And right here, you'll find "Academic Search Complete" on the right hand side.
Some quick information about this database is that it is the place where you can find some information
or articles related to any papers you may need or want to write about for your classes.
Before we begin, keep in mind that we need to be using the Global Protect VPN
provided by UCR.
Installing the VPN has its own tutorial on the UCR Library website under the section Connect from Off-Campus.
This database is place to find articles you may need for your classes.
I'll use college admission as an example topic we can search for in this database.
As you can see, there are 14,000 results which is of course, far more than what we need for any class.
What you would want to do next is to narrow down your search results
to something more specific to what you nee for your class.
We can filter by using the operator "and" to search for more than one search term.
As a quick tip, the "and" operator is used to find articles where both search terms are in the article.
The "or" operator means that only one of the search of the search terms needs to be an article
in order for it to come up in our results.
We can also put the search term in quotation marks to find only that exact phrasing in our search results.
In this example, if we use the operator "or" and make our search for California,
as you can see, there are 900,000 results which is far more than what we would ever need.
That is because either term needs to be in the article but you don't necessarily need both terms.
What we would want for this exercise is to use the operator "and."
By using the "and" operator, we cut down on our search results to only 700.
700 is of course many many results, but is far less than 900,000.
So another way to narrow down our search results is to use the tool bar on the left
to narrow down to specific sources.
We can refine the search even more by filtering the publication date.
Let's say we want to use article from only about 5 years ago.
We have now refined our search to 140 results.
We can refine our search even further by looking at only peer reviewed sources.
As a quick tip, a scholarly, peer reviewed journal has to be reviewed by other professionals
within the same field before it is published.
A peer reviewed article adds a high level of credibility and trustworthiness to the citations of your paper.
If we refine our search even further to only peer reviewed articles,
we are now down to 37 results.
Let's take a look at one of these results.
First, take a look at the titles, the authors, the abstract, and the source to make sure
that this is what you would need for your paper.
As you can see in this article, there are many authors who have contributed to this work.
The abstract is down here, clear an visible and will give you a good summary of what the article is about.
If the article does not fit your need, then of course go back to the results page and look for another one.
If the article does fit the needs of your paper, you can look at the tools on either side of the page.
On the left hand side, there is a link to the full text as a PDF, but note that not all articles
will have a link to a PDF. Some may have an HTML or some may not have a full text available.
Always be aware of if the text you are looking at has a full text available.
The other option is the Get It At UC button. The Get It At UC button will have its own tutorial
that you can watch to get a full explanation of how it works.
In short, the Get It At UC button brings us to the UCR website where we find some information about the text.
The tools on the right hand side give you some more additional options that are pretty self-explanatory.
There are options for sending and saving the page as well as citation generation.
Of course, you should always look at the citation and make sure it follows the format properly.
Of course at the tope, there is a notice saying you should pay special attention to names, capitalization, and dates.
Not all automatically generated citations will be accurate.
An example of a citation that could use a little bit more work is the Chicago one.
In the Chicago format, normally you would want the place of publication,
the actual physical location of the publisher in the citation itself.
And as you can see in this generated example, that is not present.
So for in this example, you would want to add that to the citation when you write the citation in your paper.
Always be sure to check the syllabus to make sure that the citation method is what the professor wants for their class.
If you have any questions or concerns, be sure to check the help button and the "Ask a Librarian" button
at the top of the page for assistance and make sure to follow any instructions that they provide.
Thank you very much for your time, have a great rest of your day, and have fun searching!